## Thriving Team Skills

A software engineer requires both technical and non-technical skills to be successful.  These aren't just nice-to-have "soft skills" you are born with but hard skills you can cultivate and develop throughout your career.  These skills not only lead to individual success but empowers your team and helps create a high performance culture.  Here are some examples:

* __Strong cross-functional partner__ - Balancing the needs of the team, others and the company.  Sheperding ideas through, surfacing dissent yet being able to move projects along.
* __Excellent verbal and written communicator__ - Ability to convey ideas in a succint and concise manner.  Distill complex ideas into simple to understand concepts.  Effective at communicating with folks of varying technical expertise.
* __Ownership / “tech-lead” mentality, product minded__ - Understand the "why" of doing features and tasks.  Thinking through how the changes will impact the customers.  Propensity to lead a project, regardless of the title you have.
* __Flexibility to do different things, hunger/humbleness to learn__ - Nothing is "beneath you" regardless of your seniority or experience.  Curiosity to learn more or dig deeper, even areas you consider yourself an expert in.  Desire to grow
* __Unique perspective/experience to bring to the team__ - Diversity of thought is the hallmark of a high performing team, teammates with unique experiences or differing viewpoints are highly valued.  Give space for psychologically safe environment for all ideas to be debated and discussed
* __Effective Prioritization__ - making time and space to work on priority items.  Being able to identify seemingly "low priority" items that require attention and focus.
* __Sustainable accountability__ - you take pride in the work you do, hold yourself accountable for things to be done well.  You also hold your teammates or partners accountable for the work they need to do.  You are able to do this in a sustainable manner (e.g. not holding you or your teammates to unreasonable standards).
* __Navigating through uncertainity or change__ -  The saying of _"The only constant in life is change"_ is true for engineering organizations, large or small. This could be a specific project, your team, the org you sit-in or even the industry as a whole could be in flux.  Your ability to navigate through these changes and in some cases finding the right fit for your skillset could make all the difference.
* __Focus on being a great individual contributor and technical leader__ - Desire for mastery in your particular field.  Focus on growing thriving team skills.  Understanding the nuances of technical vs people leadership
